docs/managing-dependencies.md, before:

---
draft: false
layout: single
menu:
  docs:
    weight: 11
title: Managing dependencies
type: docs
---


# Managing dependencies

## Dependency groups

Poetry provides a way to **organize** your dependencies by **groups**. For instance, you might have
dependencies that are only needed to test your project or to build the documentation.

To declare a new dependency group, use a `tool.poetry.group.<group>` section
where `<group>` is the name of your dependency group (for instance, `test`):

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.test]  # This part can be left out

[tool.poetry.group.test.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

{{% note %}}
All dependencies **must be compatible with each other** across groups since they will
be resolved regardless of whether they are required for installation or not (see [Installing group dependencies]({{< relref "#installing-group-dependencies" >}})).

Think of dependency groups as **labels** associated with your dependencies: they don't have any bearings
on whether their dependencies will be resolved and installed **by default**, they are simply a way to organize
the dependencies logically.
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
The dependencies declared in `tool.poetry.dependencies` are part of an implicit `main` group.

```toml
[tool.poetry.dependencies]  # main dependency group
httpx = "*"
pendulum = "*"

[tool.poetry.group.test.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
Dependency groups, other than the implicit `main` group, must only contain dependencies you need in your development
process. Installing them is only possible by using Poetry.

To declare a set of dependencies, which add additional functionality to the project during runtime,
use [extras]({{< relref "pyproject#extras" >}}) instead. Extras can be installed by the end user using `pip`.
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
**A note about the `dev-dependencies` section**

Any dependency declared in the `dev-dependencies` section will automatically be added to a `dev` group.
So the two following notations are equivalent:

```toml
[tool.poetry.dev-dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.dev.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

Poetry will slowly transition away from the `dev-dependencies` notation which will soon be deprecated,
so it's advised to migrate your existing development dependencies to the new `group` notation.
{{% /note %}}

### Optional groups

A dependency group can be declared as optional. This makes sense when you have
a group of dependencies that are only required in a particular environment or for
a specific purpose.

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.docs]
optional = true

[tool.poetry.group.docs.dependencies]
mkdocs = "*"
```

Optional groups can be installed in addition to the **default** dependencies by using the `--with`
option of the [`install`]({{< relref "cli#install" >}}) command.

```bash
poetry install --with docs
```

{{% warning %}}
Optional group dependencies will **still** be resolved alongside other dependencies, so
special care should be taken to ensure they are compatible with each other.
{{% /warning %}}

### Adding a dependency to a group

The [`add`]({{< relref "cli#add" >}}) command is the preferred way to add dependencies
to a group. This is done by using the `--group (-G)` option.

```bash
poetry add pytest --group test
```

If the group does not already exist, it will be created automatically.

### Installing group dependencies

**By default**, dependencies across **all non-optional groups** will be installed when executing
`poetry install`.

{{% note %}}
The default set of dependencies for a project includes the implicit `main` group defined in
`tool.poetry.dependencies` as well as all groups that are not explicitly marked as an
[optional group]({{< relref "#optional-groups" >}}).
{{% /note %}}

You can **exclude** one or more groups with the `--without` option:

```bash
poetry install --without test,docs
```

You can also opt in [optional groups]({{< relref "#optional-groups" >}}) by using the `--with` option:

```bash
poetry install --with docs
```

{{% warning %}}
When used together, `--without` takes precedence over `--with`. For example, the following command
will only install the dependencies specified in the optional `test` group.

```bash
poetry install --with test,docs --without docs
```
{{% /warning %}}

Finally, in some case you might want to install **only specific groups** of dependencies
without installing the default set of dependencies. For that purpose, you can use
the `--only` option.

```bash
poetry install --only docs
```

{{% note %}}
If you only want to install the project's runtime dependencies, you can do so  with the
`--only main` notation:

```bash
poetry install --only main
```
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
If you want to install the project root, and no other dependencies, you can use
the `--only-root` option.

```bash
poetry install --only-root
```
{{% /note %}}

### Removing dependencies from a group

The [`remove`]({{< relref "cli#remove" >}}) command supports a `--group` option
to remove packages from a specific group:

```bash
poetry remove mkdocs --group docs
```

## Synchronizing dependencies

Poetry supports what's called dependency synchronization. Dependency synchronization ensures
that the locked dependencies in the `poetry.lock` file are the only ones present
in the environment, removing anything that's not necessary.

This is done by using the `--sync` option of the `install` command:

```bash
poetry install --sync
```

The `--sync` option can be combined with any [dependency groups]({{< relref "#dependency-groups" >}}) related options
to synchronize the environment with specific groups. Note that extras are separate.  Any
extras not selected for install are always removed, regardless of `--sync`.

```bash
poetry install --without dev --sync
poetry install --with docs --sync
poetry install --only dev
```

{{% note %}}
The `--sync` option replaces the `--remove-untracked` option which is now deprecated.
{{% /note %}}

## Layering optional groups

When you omit the `--sync` option, you can install any subset of optional groups without removing
those that are already installed.  This is very useful, for example, in multi-stage
Docker builds, where you run `poetry install` multiple times in different build stages.

Commit message:

Clarifies the dev-dependencies -> group.dev.dependencies switch in docs (#6723)
As written, it seemed to prioritize the older section notation without
clarifying that the older syntax still works but shouldn't be used. This
reorder visually prioritizes the preferred syntax as of 1.2.x while
clearly explaining what the old syntax is during this transition period.

The best next step here would be clearly defining the version in which
dev-dependencies will disappear.

Co-authored-by: Mathieu Kniewallner <mathieu.kniewallner@gmail.com>

docs/managing-dependencies.md, after:

---
draft: false
layout: single
menu:
  docs:
    weight: 11
title: Managing dependencies
type: docs
---


# Managing dependencies

## Dependency groups

Poetry provides a way to **organize** your dependencies by **groups**. For instance, you might have
dependencies that are only needed to test your project or to build the documentation.

To declare a new dependency group, use a `tool.poetry.group.<group>` section
where `<group>` is the name of your dependency group (for instance, `test`):

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.test]  # This part can be left out

[tool.poetry.group.test.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

{{% note %}}
All dependencies **must be compatible with each other** across groups since they will
be resolved regardless of whether they are required for installation or not (see [Installing group dependencies]({{< relref "#installing-group-dependencies" >}})).

Think of dependency groups as **labels** associated with your dependencies: they don't have any bearings
on whether their dependencies will be resolved and installed **by default**, they are simply a way to organize
the dependencies logically.
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
The dependencies declared in `tool.poetry.dependencies` are part of an implicit `main` group.

```toml
[tool.poetry.dependencies]  # main dependency group
httpx = "*"
pendulum = "*"

[tool.poetry.group.test.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
Dependency groups, other than the implicit `main` group, must only contain dependencies you need in your development
process. Installing them is only possible by using Poetry.

To declare a set of dependencies, which add additional functionality to the project during runtime,
use [extras]({{< relref "pyproject#extras" >}}) instead. Extras can be installed by the end user using `pip`.
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
**A note about defining a `dev` dependencies group**

The proper way to define a `dev` dependencies group since Poetry 1.2.0 is the following:

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.dev.dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

This group notation is preferred since Poetry 1.2.0 and not usable in earlier versions.
For backwards compatibility with older versions of Poetry,
any dependency declared in the `dev-dependencies` section will automatically be added to the `dev` group.
So the above and following notations are equivalent:

```toml
# Poetry pre-1.2.x style, understood by Poetry 1.0–1.2
[tool.poetry.dev-dependencies]
pytest = "^6.0.0"
pytest-mock = "*"
```

Poetry will slowly transition away from the `dev-dependencies` notation which will soon be deprecated,
so it's advised to migrate your existing development dependencies to the new `group` notation.
{{% /note %}}

### Optional groups

A dependency group can be declared as optional. This makes sense when you have
a group of dependencies that are only required in a particular environment or for
a specific purpose.

```toml
[tool.poetry.group.docs]
optional = true

[tool.poetry.group.docs.dependencies]
mkdocs = "*"
```

Optional groups can be installed in addition to the **default** dependencies by using the `--with`
option of the [`install`]({{< relref "cli#install" >}}) command.

```bash
poetry install --with docs
```

{{% warning %}}
Optional group dependencies will **still** be resolved alongside other dependencies, so
special care should be taken to ensure they are compatible with each other.
{{% /warning %}}

### Adding a dependency to a group

The [`add`]({{< relref "cli#add" >}}) command is the preferred way to add dependencies
to a group. This is done by using the `--group (-G)` option.

```bash
poetry add pytest --group test
```

If the group does not already exist, it will be created automatically.

### Installing group dependencies

**By default**, dependencies across **all non-optional groups** will be installed when executing
`poetry install`.

{{% note %}}
The default set of dependencies for a project includes the implicit `main` group defined in
`tool.poetry.dependencies` as well as all groups that are not explicitly marked as an
[optional group]({{< relref "#optional-groups" >}}).
{{% /note %}}

You can **exclude** one or more groups with the `--without` option:

```bash
poetry install --without test,docs
```

You can also opt in [optional groups]({{< relref "#optional-groups" >}}) by using the `--with` option:

```bash
poetry install --with docs
```

{{% warning %}}
When used together, `--without` takes precedence over `--with`. For example, the following command
will only install the dependencies specified in the optional `test` group.

```bash
poetry install --with test,docs --without docs
```
{{% /warning %}}

Finally, in some case you might want to install **only specific groups** of dependencies
without installing the default set of dependencies. For that purpose, you can use
the `--only` option.

```bash
poetry install --only docs
```

{{% note %}}
If you only want to install the project's runtime dependencies, you can do so  with the
`--only main` notation:

```bash
poetry install --only main
```
{{% /note %}}

{{% note %}}
If you want to install the project root, and no other dependencies, you can use
the `--only-root` option.

```bash
poetry install --only-root
```
{{% /note %}}

### Removing dependencies from a group

The [`remove`]({{< relref "cli#remove" >}}) command supports a `--group` option
to remove packages from a specific group:

```bash
poetry remove mkdocs --group docs
```

## Synchronizing dependencies

Poetry supports what's called dependency synchronization. Dependency synchronization ensures
that the locked dependencies in the `poetry.lock` file are the only ones present
in the environment, removing anything that's not necessary.

This is done by using the `--sync` option of the `install` command:

```bash
poetry install --sync
```

The `--sync` option can be combined with any [dependency groups]({{< relref "#dependency-groups" >}}) related options
to synchronize the environment with specific groups. Note that extras are separate.  Any
extras not selected for install are always removed, regardless of `--sync`.

```bash
poetry install --without dev --sync
poetry install --with docs --sync
poetry install --only dev
```

{{% note %}}
The `--sync` option replaces the `--remove-untracked` option which is now deprecated.
{{% /note %}}

## Layering optional groups

When you omit the `--sync` option, you can install any subset of optional groups without removing
those that are already installed.  This is very useful, for example, in multi-stage
Docker builds, where you run `poetry install` multiple times in different build stages.
